docs/api.md, before:

# Zero-OS Orchestrator REST API

The Zero-OS Orchestrator exposes all the REST APIs to manage the Zero-OS cluster.

This [link](https://htmlpreviewer.github.io/?./raml/api.html) shows all the available REST API endpoints exposed by the Zero-OS Orchestrator and the different calls that can be done on each endpoint along with the expected request body and response.

The APIs are split into two categories:

- APIs that use **Direct Access** to return data/perform actions: this is done by using the [Go Client](https://github.com/g8os/go-client) of core0 to directly talk to the nodes and containers
- APIs that use **AYS** to return data/perform actions: this is done by using the [AYS API](https://htmlpreviewer.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Jumpscale/jumpscale_core8/8.2.0/specs/ays_api.html) to contact the AYS server

The following are some examples on how to use the REST API:

- [List core0 nodes](#list-nodes)
- [Get memory information of a node](#memory-info)
- [Reboot a node](#reboot-node)
- [List containers of node](#list-containers)
- [Create a new container](#create-container)
- [List jobs on a container](#list-jobs)
- [Kill a job](#kill-job)
- [List processes on a container](#list-processes)
- [Start a process on a container](#start-process)

In all below examples we will assume that the Zero-OS Orchestrator is listening on 127.0.0.1:8080.

<a id="list-nodes"></a>
## List nodes

Using the Zero-OS Orchestrator listening on 127.0.0.1:8080:
```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes
```

Response:
```json
[
 {
   "hostname": "core0node",
   "id": "525400123456",
   "status": "running"
 }
]
```


<a id="memory-info"></a>
## Get memory information of a node

For node 525400123456:
```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/mem
```

Response:
```json
[
  {
   "active": 197136384,
   "available": 1454743552,
   "buffers": 0,
   "cached": 372428800,
   "free": 1521983488,
   "inactive": 323203072,
   "total": 2102710272,
   "used": 647966720,
   "usedPercent": 30.815787064362617,
   "wired": 0
  }
]
```


<a id="reboot-node"></a>
## Reboot a node

For node 525400123456:
```
POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/reboot
```

Response: `204 No Content`


<a id="list-containers"></a>
## List containers of node

For node 525400123456:

```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers
```

Response:
```json
[
  {
    "flist": "http://192.168.20.132:8080/deboeckj/lede-17.01.0-r3205-59508e3-x86-64-generic-rootfs.flist",
    "hostname": "vfw_21",
    "id": "vfw_21",
    "status": "running"
  }
]
```


<a id="create-container"></a>
## Create a new container

For node 525400123456:
```
POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers
```

Payload:
```json
{
  "nics":[
    {
      "config":{
        "dhcp":false,
        "cidr":"192.168.57.217/24",
        "gateway":"192.168.57.254",
        "dns":[
          "8.8.8.8"
        ]
      },
      "id":"0",
      "type":"vlan"
    }
  ],
  "id":"vfw_22",
  "filesystems":[

  ],
  "flist":"http://192.168.20.132:8080/deboeckj/lede-17.01.0-r3205-59508e3-x86-64-generic-rootfs.flist",
  "hostNetworking":false,
  "hostname":"vfw_22",
  "initprocesses":[

  ],
  "ports":[

  ]
}
```

Response: `204 No Content`


<a id="list-jobs"></a>
## List jobs on a container

For container vfw_22:
```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers/vfw_21/jobs
```

Response:
```json
[
 {
   "id": "f3976780-f369-45df-ab54-206149dc000e",
   "startTime": 1491984742526
 }
]
```


<a id="kill-job"></a>
## Kill a job

For job f3976780-f369-45df-ab54-206149dc000e on container vfw_21:

```
DELETE http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers/vfw_21/jobs/f3976780-f369-45df-ab54-206149dc000e
```

Response: `204 No Content`


<a id="list-processes"></a>
## List processes on a container

For container vfw_22:
```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers/vfw_22/processes
```

Response:
```json
[
  {
    "cmdline": "/coreX -core-id 10 -redis-socket /redis.socket -reply-to corex:results -hostname vfw_22",
    "cpu": {
      "guestnice": 0,
      "idle": 0,
      "iowait": 0,
      "irq": 0,
      "nice": 0,
      "softirq": 0,
      "steal": 0,
      "stolen": 0,
      "system": 0,
      "user": 0.04
    },
    "pid": 1,
    "rss": 3399680,
    "swap": 0,
    "vms": 8163328
  }
]
```


<a id="start-process"></a>
## Start a process on a container

For container vfw_22:
```
POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers/vfw_22/processes
```

Payload:
```json
{
   "name": "/bin/dnsmasq",
   "pwd": "",
   "args": ["--conf-file=/etc/dnsmasq.conf", "-d"],
   "env": []
}
```

Response: `202 Accepted`


There is also support for JWT tokens , in this case we use itsyou.online ( **IYO** ) to provide the token,  
but before that the 0-orchestrator need to be running using the --org flag. This flag allows us to add an **IYO** organization  
to authorize and authenticate with.If the falg is not used orchestrator will not require JWT on requests.

   
   

To generate the token the 0-orchestrator , the pyclient has provided an easy wrapper around the request that is used:
```python 
from zeroos.orchestrator.client import oauth2_client_itsyouonline

cls = oauth2_client_itsyouonline.Oauth2ClientItsyouonline() # this class can take different urls to authenticate with but defaults to https://itsyou.online/v1/oauth/access_token?response_type=id_token

response = cls.get_access_token(<client id>, <client secret>, scope=['user:memberof:<organization name>'], audience=[]) # at the moment only the scope type organization:memberof:<organization_name> is supported 

print(respnose.token)
```
  
  
To use the token from the previous steps in the http requests it is passed as follows:
Using the header, 
```
Authorization: Bearer <**JWT**>

GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes
```  
Response:

```json
[
 {
   "hostname": "core0node",
   "id": "525400123456",
   "status": "running"
 }
]
```

To pass the JWT using the python client :

```python
from zeroos.orchestrator.client import APIClient

test = APIClient("<orchestrator ip >:5000")
test.set_auth_header("Bearer <JWT token>")
```

Commit message:

added ays authenticaton to install script

docs/api.md, after:

# Zero-OS Orchestrator REST API

The Zero-OS Orchestrator exposes all the REST APIs to manage the Zero-OS cluster.

This [link](https://htmlpreviewer.github.io/?./raml/api.html) shows all the available REST API endpoints exposed by the Zero-OS Orchestrator and the different calls that can be done on each endpoint along with the expected request body and response.

The APIs are split into two categories:

- APIs that use **Direct Access** to return data/perform actions: this is done by using the [Go Client](https://github.com/g8os/go-client) of core0 to directly talk to the nodes and containers
- APIs that use **AYS** to return data/perform actions: this is done by using the [AYS API](https://htmlpreviewer.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Jumpscale/jumpscale_core8/8.2.0/specs/ays_api.html) to contact the AYS server

The following are some examples on how to use the REST API:

- [List core0 nodes](#list-nodes)
- [Get memory information of a node](#memory-info)
- [Reboot a node](#reboot-node)
- [List containers of node](#list-containers)
- [Create a new container](#create-container)
- [List jobs on a container](#list-jobs)
- [Kill a job](#kill-job)
- [List processes on a container](#list-processes)
- [Start a process on a container](#start-process)

In all below examples we will assume that the Zero-OS Orchestrator is listening on 127.0.0.1:8080.

<a id="list-nodes"></a>
## List nodes

Using the Zero-OS Orchestrator listening on 127.0.0.1:8080:
```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes
```

Response:
```json
[
 {
   "hostname": "core0node",
   "id": "525400123456",
   "status": "running"
 }
]
```


<a id="memory-info"></a>
## Get memory information of a node

For node 525400123456:
```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/mem
```

Response:
```json
[
  {
   "active": 197136384,
   "available": 1454743552,
   "buffers": 0,
   "cached": 372428800,
   "free": 1521983488,
   "inactive": 323203072,
   "total": 2102710272,
   "used": 647966720,
   "usedPercent": 30.815787064362617,
   "wired": 0
  }
]
```


<a id="reboot-node"></a>
## Reboot a node

For node 525400123456:
```
POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/reboot
```

Response: `204 No Content`


<a id="list-containers"></a>
## List containers of node

For node 525400123456:

```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers
```

Response:
```json
[
  {
    "flist": "http://192.168.20.132:8080/deboeckj/lede-17.01.0-r3205-59508e3-x86-64-generic-rootfs.flist",
    "hostname": "vfw_21",
    "id": "vfw_21",
    "status": "running"
  }
]
```


<a id="create-container"></a>
## Create a new container

For node 525400123456:
```
POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers
```

Payload:
```json
{
  "nics":[
    {
      "config":{
        "dhcp":false,
        "cidr":"192.168.57.217/24",
        "gateway":"192.168.57.254",
        "dns":[
          "8.8.8.8"
        ]
      },
      "id":"0",
      "type":"vlan"
    }
  ],
  "id":"vfw_22",
  "filesystems":[

  ],
  "flist":"http://192.168.20.132:8080/deboeckj/lede-17.01.0-r3205-59508e3-x86-64-generic-rootfs.flist",
  "hostNetworking":false,
  "hostname":"vfw_22",
  "initprocesses":[

  ],
  "ports":[

  ]
}
```

Response: `204 No Content`


<a id="list-jobs"></a>
## List jobs on a container

For container vfw_22:
```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers/vfw_21/jobs
```

Response:
```json
[
 {
   "id": "f3976780-f369-45df-ab54-206149dc000e",
   "startTime": 1491984742526
 }
]
```


<a id="kill-job"></a>
## Kill a job

For job f3976780-f369-45df-ab54-206149dc000e on container vfw_21:

```
DELETE http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers/vfw_21/jobs/f3976780-f369-45df-ab54-206149dc000e
```

Response: `204 No Content`


<a id="list-processes"></a>
## List processes on a container

For container vfw_22:
```
GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers/vfw_22/processes
```

Response:
```json
[
  {
    "cmdline": "/coreX -core-id 10 -redis-socket /redis.socket -reply-to corex:results -hostname vfw_22",
    "cpu": {
      "guestnice": 0,
      "idle": 0,
      "iowait": 0,
      "irq": 0,
      "nice": 0,
      "softirq": 0,
      "steal": 0,
      "stolen": 0,
      "system": 0,
      "user": 0.04
    },
    "pid": 1,
    "rss": 3399680,
    "swap": 0,
    "vms": 8163328
  }
]
```


<a id="start-process"></a>
## Start a process on a container

For container vfw_22:
```
POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes/525400123456/containers/vfw_22/processes
```

Payload:
```json
{
   "name": "/bin/dnsmasq",
   "pwd": "",
   "args": ["--conf-file=/etc/dnsmasq.conf", "-d"],
   "env": []
}
```

Response: `202 Accepted`


There is also support for JWT tokens , in this case we use itsyou.online ( **IYO** ) to provide the token,  
To enable JWT authentication , both AYS server and the 0-orchestrator must be running with JWT auth enabled.
 - The documnetation for doing that in ays is available [here](https://github.com/Jumpscale/ays9/blob/master/doc/configuration.md).  
 - As for the api the organization name is passed through --org flag , or passed as the last param to the install develop param
This flag allows us to add an **IYO** organization
to authorize and authenticate with.If the falg is not used orchestrator will not require JWT on requests.

   
   

To generate the token the 0-orchestrator , the pyclient has provided an easy wrapper around the request that is used:
```python 
from zeroos.orchestrator.client import oauth2_client_itsyouonline

cls = oauth2_client_itsyouonline.Oauth2ClientItsyouonline() # this class can take different urls to authenticate with but defaults to https://itsyou.online/v1/oauth/access_token?response_type=id_token

response = cls.get_access_token(<client id>, <client secret>, scope=['user:memberof:<organization name>'], audience=[]) # at the moment only the scope type organization:memberof:<organization_name> is supported 

print(respnose.token)
```
  
  
To use the token from the previous steps in the http requests it is passed as follows:
Using the header, 
```
Authorization: Bearer <**JWT**>

GET http://127.0.0.1:8080/nodes
```  
Response:

```json
[
 {
   "hostname": "core0node",
   "id": "525400123456",
   "status": "running"
 }
]
```

To pass the JWT using the python client :

```python
from zeroos.orchestrator.client import APIClient

test = APIClient("<orchestrator ip >:5000")
test.set_auth_header("Bearer <JWT token>")
```
